docs: plugin authors guide for rolldown-vite (#19759)
vitejs/vite: docs/guide/rolldown.md

The `rolldown-vite` package is a temporary solution to gather feedback and stabilize the Rolldown integration. In the future, this functionality will be merged back into the main Vite repository.

We encourage you to try out `rolldown-vite` and contribute to its development through feedback and issue reports.

## Plugin / Framework authors guide

### The list of big changes

- Rolldown is used for build (Rollup was used before)
- Rolldown is used for the optimizer (esbuild was used before)
- CommonJS support is handled by Rolldown (@rollup/plugin-commonjs was used before)
- Oxc is used for syntax lowering (esbuild was used before)

> - lightningcss is used for CSS minification by default (esbuild was used before)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lightning CSS is used for CSS minification by default (esbuild was used before)
```

- Oxc is used for syntax lowering (esbuild was used before)
- lightningcss is used for CSS minification by default (esbuild was used before)
- Oxc minifier is used for JS minification by default (esbuild was used before)
- Rolldown is used for bundling the config (esbuild was used before)

### Detecting rolldown-vite

You can detect by either

- checking the `this.meta.rolldownVersion` existence

```js
const plugin = {
  resolveId() {
    if (this.meta.rolldownVersion) {
      // logic for rolldown-vite
    } else {
      // logic for rollup-vite
    }
  },
}
```

- checking the `rolldownVersion` export existence

```js
import * as vite from 'vite'

if (vite.rolldownVersion) {
  // logic for rolldown-vite
} else {
  // logic for rollup-vite
}
```

### Ignoring option validation in Rolldown

Rolldown throws an error when unknown options or invalid options are passed. Because some options in Rollup are not supported by Rolldown, you may encounter errors.

> Error: Failed validate input options.
>
> - For the "preserveEntrySignatures". Invalid key: Expected never but received "preserveEntrySignatures".

To fix this error, you can either

> - conditionally pass the option by checking whether it's running with rolldown-vite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- conditionally pass the option by checking whether it's running with `rolldown-vite` as shown above
```

> - set `ROLLDOWN_OPTIONS_VALIDATION=loose` to suppress the error

Reviewer: question: What is preferred here (quick fix vs. "proper solution")?

Author: This should be fixed when we switch to rolldown-vite. But until then I think it's not necessary.
For some options that won't be implemented in rolldown before rolldown-vite switch, I think those should be fixed properly now.

Author: Let me check the rolldown team if the options would be supported.

Author: They told me that the options won't likely to be implemented as-is or soon. So I think the recommendation would be to "conditionally pass the option by checking whether it's running with rolldown-vite".

### `transformWithEsbuild` requires `esbuild` to be installed separately

> A similar function `transformWithOxc`, which uses Oxc instead of esbuild, is exported from rolldown-vite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar function called `transformWithOxc`, which uses Oxc instead of `esbuild`, is exported from `rolldown-vite`.
```

Might be good to link to the docs of the function (as soon as it is documented on the respective site)

> ### Compat layer for esbuild options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compatibility layer for `esbuild` options
```

> Rolldown-Vite has some compat layer to convert options for esbuild to Oxc / rolldown. As tested in the ecosystem-ci, this works in many cases, including simple esbuild plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rolldown-Vite has a compatibility layer to convert options for `esbuild` to the respective Oxc or `rolldown` ones. As tested in the ecosystem-ci, this works in many cases, including simple `esbuild` plugins.
```

Could we link to the `rolldown-vite` ecosystem-ci here?

> That said, we'll be removing the esbuild options support in the future and encourage you to try the corresponding Oxc / rolldown options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, **we'll be removing the `esbuild` options support in the future** and encourage you to try the corresponding Oxc or `rolldown` options.
```

> You can get the options set by the compat layer from the `configResolved` hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the options set by the compatibility layer from the `configResolved` hook.
```

I suppose an example here would be nice as well 😋

### Hook filter feature

> Rolldown has [hook filter feature](https://rolldown.rs/guide/plugin-development#plugin-hook-filters). You can use this feature to make your plugin more performant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rolldown introduced a [hook filter feature](https://rolldown.rs/guide/plugin-development#plugin-hook-filters) to reduce the communication overhead the between Rust and JavaScript runtimes. By using this feature you can make your plugin more performant.
```

This is also supported by Rollup 4.38.0+ and Vite 6.3.0+. To make your plugin backward compatible with the older versions, make sure to also run the filter inside the hook handlers.

> ### converting the content to JS in `load` / `transform` hooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Converting content to JavaScript in `load` or `transform` hooks
```

> If you are converting the content to JS from other types in `load` / `transform` hooks, you may need to add `moduleType: 'js'` to the returned value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are converting the content to JavaScript from other types in `load` or `transform` hooks, you may need to add `moduleType: 'js'` to the returned value.
```

Would it be useful to add "why"?
